---
title: Shifts Challenge 2022 begins!
image:
date: 2022-07-19 00:01:00
---
The Shifts Project is&nbsp;Happy to&nbsp;announce the launch of&nbsp;the Shifts Challenge&nbsp;2.0! This will be&nbsp;the second iteration of&nbsp;the Shifts Challenge, which successfully debuted last year at&nbsp;NeurIPS 2021.

This year, the competition will consist of&nbsp;two new tracks, each corresponding to&nbsp;a&nbsp;high-risk application affected by&nbsp;distributional shift: marine cargo vessel power estimation and White Matter Multiple Sclerosis lesion segmentation in&nbsp;3D&nbsp;Magnetic Resonance Imaging of&nbsp;the brain. Each application is&nbsp;associated with a&nbsp;unique data modality and predictive task. Both tasks are strongly affected by&nbsp;distributional shift, have strict requirements on&nbsp;robustness and are of&nbsp;high social relevance.

Maritime transport delivers around&nbsp;90% of&nbsp;the world&rsquo;s traded goods, emitting almost a&nbsp;billion tonnes of&nbsp;CO2 annually and increasing. Energy consumption varies greatly depending on&nbsp;the chosen routes, speeds, operation and maintenance of&nbsp;ships. The complex underlying relationships between are not fully known or&nbsp;taken into account at&nbsp;the time these decisions are made, leading to&nbsp;significant fuel waste.
Weather and sea conditions that affect vessel power consumption are highly variable based on&nbsp;seasonality and geographical location and cannot all be&nbsp;fully measured, further complicating planning of&nbsp;vessel operations. Training accurate power consumption models can help significantly reduce costs and emissions. However, significant distributional shifts can be&nbsp;expected to&nbsp;occur between the real use cases of&nbsp;models and the data used to&nbsp;train and evaluate them. Inaccurate power prediction and the resultant errors in&nbsp;fuel planning and optimisation can be&nbsp;considerably costly and potentially hazardous. Thus, the development of&nbsp;uncertainty-aware and robust models is&nbsp;essential to&nbsp;enable the effective deployment of&nbsp;this technology to&nbsp;reduce the carbon footprint of&nbsp;global supply chains.

Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is&nbsp;a&nbsp;debilitating, incurable and progressive disorder of&nbsp;the central nervous system that negatively impacts an&nbsp;individual&rsquo;s quality of&nbsp;life. Estimates claim that every five minutes a&nbsp;person is&nbsp;diagnosed with&nbsp;MS, reaching 2.8 million cases in&nbsp;2020 and that&nbsp;MS is&nbsp;two-to-four times more prevalent in&nbsp;women than in&nbsp;men. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) plays a&nbsp;crucial role in&nbsp;the disease diagnosis and follow-up. However, manual annotations are expensive, time-consuming, and prone to&nbsp;errors. Automatic, ML-based methods may introduce objectivity and labor efficiency in&nbsp;the tracking of&nbsp;MS lesions. However, the availability of&nbsp;training images for machine learning methods is&nbsp;limited. No&nbsp;publicly available dataset fully describes the heterogeneity of&nbsp;the pathology. Furthermore, changes in&nbsp;MRI scanner vendors, configurations, imaging software and medical personnel leads to&nbsp;significant variability in&nbsp;the imaging process. These differences, which are exacerbated when considering images collected from multiple medical centers, represent a&nbsp;significant distributional shift for ML-based MS&nbsp;detection models, reducing the applicability and robustness of&nbsp;automated models in&nbsp;real-world conditions. The development of&nbsp;robust&nbsp;MS lesion segmentation models is&nbsp;necessary to&nbsp;bring improvements in&nbsp;the quality and throughput of&nbsp;the medical care available to&nbsp;the growing number of&nbsp;MS patients.

The Shifts Challenge&nbsp;2.0 aims to&nbsp;draw attention to&nbsp;these two tasks and drive the development of&nbsp;robust, uncertainty-aware machine learning methods for these tasks. To&nbsp;join our challenge, register on&nbsp;[Grand Challenge](https://shifts.grand-challenge.org), join the [Discord](https://discord.gg/mKMgRSXQnX), follow&nbsp;us on&nbsp;[Twitter](https://twitter.com/ShiftsProject) and sign up&nbsp;to&nbsp;our [mailing list](https://forms.gle/DnC9mVCYgHhwCGWy5).
